{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fprq8\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f2\fnil\fprq8 Times New Roman;}{\f3\fnil\fprq8\fcharset0 Bitstream Vera Sans;}{\f4\fnil\fcharset0 Bahnschrift Light;}{\f5\fnil\fcharset2 Symbol;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.17134}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\f0\fs32\lang9 Kutztown University\par
\fs24 Institutional Review Board\par
\f1\fs22\par

\pard\qc\ul\b\f0\fs32 Application for IRB Initial Review\par

\pard\ulnone\b0\f1\fs22\par
\b\f0\fs24 Date Submitted\b0 :\tab\tab\tab\par
\f1\fs22\par
\b\f0\fs24 Title of Study\b0 :\par
\f1\fs22\par
\trowd\trgaph108\trleft-65\trrh315\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3
\clcfpat2\clcbpat3\clbrdrl\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf2\clbrdrt\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf2\clbrdrr\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf2\clbrdrb\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf2 \cellx9576 
\pard\intbl\li60\b\caps\f0\fs24 Researchers\rquote  Information\b0\f2\endash\f0  \caps0 All student applications and applications submitted by non-university personnel must have a Kutztown University advisor or sponsor.  \f1\fs22\cell\row 
\pard\par
\ul\b\f0\fs24 Principal Investigator\par
\ulnone\b0\f1\fs22\par
\f0\fs24 Name of Investigator:\par
\f1\fs22\par
\f0\fs24\tab\fs20 Please check one:\par
\fs24\tab ___Faculty\tab\tab\tab ___Administration/Staff\tab\tab\tab\par
\tab ___Undergraduate student\tab __X_Graduate student\par
\tab ___Affiliation other than KU \ul\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\par
\ulnone\f1\fs22\par
\f0\fs24 Department/Program/Affiliation:\par
E-mail: jfeil302@live.kutztown.edu\par
Phone: 717 490 2168\par
Fax:\par
Mailing Address: 505 N Clementine St Apt G Oceanside CA 92054 \par
\f1\fs22\par
\f0\fs24 Date of when the IRB training was completed: 08/28/2017\ul\tab\tab\ulnone   Submit a copy of the certificate with this application.  Applications will not be reviewed until training is verified.\par
\f1\fs22\par
\ul\b\f0\fs24 Co-investigator(s) or Sponsor/Advisor\b0  (if applicable) \fs20 (copy and paste this section as needed)\par
\ulnone\f1\fs22\par
\f0\fs24 1. Name:\par
\f1\fs22\par
\f0\fs24\tab\fs20 Please check one:\par
\fs24\tab ___Faculty\tab\tab\tab ___Administration/Staff\tab\tab\tab\par
\tab ___Undergraduate student\tab ___Graduate student\par
\tab ___Affiliation other than KU\ul\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\par
\ulnone\f1\fs22\par
\f0\fs24 Department/Program/Affiliation:\par
E-mail:\par
Phone:\par
Mailing Address \par
\f1\fs22\par
\f0\fs24 Date of when the IRB training was completed:\ul\tab\tab\ulnone   Submit a copy of the certificate with this application.  Applications will not be reviewed until training is verified.\par
\f1\fs22\par
\f0\fs24 2. Name:\par
\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi720\f0\fs20 Please check one:\par

\pard\fs24\tab ___Faculty\tab\tab\tab ___Administration/Staff\tab\tab\tab\par
\tab ___Undergraduate student\tab ___Graduate student\par
\tab ___Affiliation other than KU \ul\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\par
\ulnone\f1\fs22\par
\f0\fs24 Department/Program/Affiliation:\par
E-mail:\par
Phone:\par
Mailing Address \par
\f1\fs22\par
\f0\fs24 Date of when the IRB training was completed:\ul\tab\tab\ulnone   Submit a copy of the certificate with this application.  Applications will not be reviewed until training is verified.\par
\f1\fs22\par
\b\f0\fs24 Will there be Research Assistants (RA) involved in this project who will have direct contact with participants and/or identifiable data?\b0  RA must complete IRB training program.\par
___Yes\tab _X__No\par
\f1\fs22\par
\b\f0\fs24 List any other individuals who will assist or view data:\par
\b0\f1\fs22\par
\par
\par
\trowd\trgaph108\trleft-65\trrh315\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3
\clcfpat2\clcbpat3\clbrdrl\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf2\clbrdrt\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf2\clbrdrr\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf2\clbrdrb\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf2 \cellx9576 
\pard\intbl\li60\b\caps\f0\fs24 PROJECT TYPE AND FUNDING\b0\caps0  \f1\fs22\cell\row 
\pard\par
\b\f0\fs24 Type of project:\par
\b0\tab\par
___ Faculty/Staff project to be submitted for external funding\par
\tab\tab -Funding institution or agency:\par
\tab\tab -Date of grant submission:\par
\tab\i Include copies of grant applications with this application.\par
\i0 ___ Faculty/Staff project NOT to be submitted for external funding\par
_X_ Master\rquote s thesis\par
___ Class project (provide course name and number:\ul\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\ulnone )\par
___ Other\ul\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\par
\ulnone\f1\fs22\par
\b\f0\fs24 How will this research be funded?\par
\b0\f1\fs22\par
\f0\fs24 _X_ Non-funded research\par
___ Internally funded (department, college, university)\par
___ Externally funded (state, federal, private)\par
___ Corporate sponsor\par
___ Other, please describe\ul\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\par
\ulnone\f1\fs22\par
\par
\trowd\trgaph108\trleft-65\trrh315\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3
\clcfpat2\clcbpat3\clbrdrl\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf2\clbrdrt\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf2\clbrdrr\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf2\clbrdrb\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf2 \cellx9576 
\pard\intbl\li60\b\caps\f0\fs24 RESEARCH PROJECT DESCRIPTION\b0\caps0  \f1\fs22\cell\row 
\pard\qc\par

\pard\f0\fs24 You must give the IRB enough information to enable them to make judgments regarding the status, approval or disapproval of your research.  So it is very important that you answer each question and section carefully and completely.  If a section or subpart does not apply to your research, please indicate this by putting \ldblquote N/A\rdblquote  in that space.  Use as much space as you need.  If the IRB doesn\rquote t have enough information to make an adequate judgment, it will table your submission and request additional information.  This can cause significant delays in the process.\par
\f1\fs22\par
\f0\fs24 Please use language and terminology that is understandable by people who are unfamiliar with your area of research.\par
\f1\fs22\par
\b\f0\fs24 A.  Purpose and Significance of the Research Study\par
\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard{\pntext\f5\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf5\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\li720\f0\fs24 Clearly explain the goals and/or hypotheses of this study, including their significance.\par

\pard\f1 The goal of this study is to gain insights into the experience of university students with visual impairment or blindness. The significance is to provide me with enough market research to hopefully make an application that will be useful to the target market.\f3\par
\f1\fs22\par

\pard{\pntext\f5\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf5\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\li720\f0\fs24 Give a brief description of the most recent relevant research in this area \i (cite sources)\i0  and how your goals relate.\par

\pard\f1\fs22\par
\par
\b\f0\fs24 B.  Participants in this Study\par
\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard{\pntext\f5\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf5\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\li720\f0\fs24 Identify all participant groups (e.g. undergraduate students, teachers, elementary school students, administrators, other groups).  Describe the basic characteristics of each group (including anticipated number of participants from each group, age range).\par

\pard\f1 Target group is undergraduate and graduate students.\par
Basic characteristic of participants is visual impairment or blindness. I do not know how many participants to expect, I am hoping for at least 10 good replies.\par
\fs22\par
\par

\pard{\pntext\f5\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf5\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\li720\f0\fs24 Describe any specific requirements for including or excluding individuals from participation (e.g. particular gender or racial/ethnic background) and the rationale for the exclusion.\par

\pard\f1\fs22 I would like to exclude those students who do not experience a visual impairment. The reasoning for this is that I want to hear from the target market, which is students with visual impairments. Since I do not need imput from sighted students, I wish to exclude them.\par
\f4\par
\f1\par

\pard{\pntext\f5\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf5\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\li720\f0\fs24 If this research involves vulnerable populations (e.g. minors, the mentally disabled, persons whose competency might be questioned, prisoners, pregnant women, or any others whose ability to give a fully informed consent might be questioned), justify their inclusion.\par

\pard\f1\fs22 Some students may be under the age of 18, and some of the particiapnts may have a mental disability. Since this survey is mostly subjective and anonymous, I don't beleive that it will impel them unfairly to participate. Also, for the survey only those questions that the participant wishes to complete can be completeed, i.e. there are no page validations for unanswered questions.\par
\par
\par
\par

\pard{\pntext\f5\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf5\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\li720\f0\fs24 Describe any relationship(s) between \ul any\ulnone  researchers involved with this study and potential participants (e.g. professor-student, resident assistant-resident, supervisor-employee).  Please note that existing relationships between a researcher and potential research participants create special concerns related to recruitment, informed consent and confidentiality of research data that must be addressed in subsequent sections of this protocol.\par

\pard\f1\fs22\par
\par
\par
\par
\b\f0\fs24 C.  Identification and Recruitment of Potential Participants\par

\pard\li360\b0 Attach copies of ALL materials that will be used to recruit participants (e.g. letters, advertisements, flyers, posters, email scripts)\par

\pard\f1\fs22\par

\pard{\pntext\f5\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf5\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\li720\f0\fs24 Describe how you will gain access to potential participants, how participants will be contacted, and what information will be given during the recruitment process.\par

\pard\f1\fs22\par
\par
\par
\par

\pard{\pntext\f5\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf5\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\li720\f0\fs24 If participants will receive compensation in any way for their participation (e.g. money, course credit), indicate the type and the amount, the method of distribution of compensation and identify the source(s) of funds used for the compensation.\par

\pard\f1\fs22\par
\par
\par
\par

\pard{\pntext\f5\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf5\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\li720\f0\fs24 Will participants and/or data be accessed from a cooperating institution (e.g., school, university, business, agency)?  If yes, a permission letter signed by an appropriate official (on the cooperating institution\rquote s letterhead) granting access to participants and/or data must be provided to the IRB committee.\par

\pard\f1\fs22\par
\par
\b\f0\fs24 D.  Interventions, Assessment Procedures and Other Sources of Data \par

\pard\li360\b0 Attach copies of everything that is being used for the purposes of this study (e.g. tests, surveys, observation recording sheets, interview questions, laboratory reporting sheets, debriefing materials).\par

\pard\f1\fs22\par

\pard{\pntext\f5\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf5\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\li720\f0\fs24 Describe your procedure, including all testing, observations, interviewing, interventions, educational programs or laboratory procedures.  Describe how data will be recorded (e.g. video or audiotape, notes).  Give approximate amount of time needed from subjects.\par

\pard\f1\fs22\par
\par
\par
\par
\par

\pard{\pntext\f5\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf5\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\li720\f0\fs24 What data or information will be collected?\par

\pard\f1\fs22\par
\par
\par

\pard{\pntext\f5\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf5\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\li720\f0\fs24 If this study is using archival data (data that has already been collected for other purposes than this study that has been on file), describe the nature of the data archive.  Explain which data is to be accessed for this study and how it will be accessed.  If data are publicly available, state this.  If not, explain how you will get access to the data and attach documentation that you have authorization to do so.\par

\pard\f1\fs22\par
\par
\par

\pard{\pntext\f5\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf5\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\li720\f0\fs24 Is the research involving the collection and/or use of health (physical or psychological) data from a healthcare provider (hospital, physician\rquote s office, health departments, etc.)?  If yes, you may need to follow the guidelines established by the Health Information Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA).\par

\pard\f1\fs22\par
\par
\par

\pard{\pntext\f5\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf5\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\li720\f0\fs24 If this study is a qualitative or oral history project that involves unstructured or semi-structured interviews or observations, provide a detailed description of the \tab nature and scope of these procedures.  Include the purpose of the interviews or observations, where they will take place, by whom they will be conducted, expected length of time, type of information and general areas of information to be covered and sample questions and/or behaviors to be observed.\par

\pard\f1\fs22\par
\par
\par

\pard{\pntext\f5\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf5\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\li720\f0\fs24 Where will the study take place?\par

\pard\f1\fs22\par
\par
\par

\pard{\pntext\f5\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf5\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\li720\f0\fs24 If deception is involved or if information will be withheld from participants, describe the type of deception or the information being withheld and explain why this is necessary.  Describe your procedures for debriefing participants. Include a copy of the debriefing statement with this application.  \par

\pard\f1\fs22\par
\par
\par
\b\f0\fs24 E.  Potential Risks to Participants and Procedures to Minimize These Risks\par
\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard{\pntext\f5\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf5\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\li720\f0\fs24 Discuss any physical, psychological, financial, social/economic or legal risks, or harm from breaches of confidentiality that might result from participation in this study and assess the likelihood and seriousness of these risks.  Explain why it is necessary to expose participants to potential risks.\par

\pard\f1\fs22\par
\par
\par

\pard{\pntext\f5\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf5\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\li720\f0\fs24 For each risk identified, describe actions that will be taken to minimize the risk.\par

\pard\f1\fs22\par
\par
\par
\b\f0\fs24 F.  Benefit/Risk Assessment\par
\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard{\pntext\f5\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf5\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\li720\f0\fs24 What are the potential benefits of the research?  (Please note \f2\endash\f0  if participants will not benefit directly in any way from their participation, state this.  Compensation, including course credit, is not considered a benefit.)  Do benefits outweigh potential risks?\par

\pard\f1\fs22\par
\par
\par

\pard{\pntext\f5\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf5\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\li720\f0\fs24 If benefits do not outweigh risks, explain why this project is justified.\par

\pard\f1\fs22\par
\par
\par
\b\f0\fs24 G. Procedures Used to Protect the Anonymity and/or Confidentiality of Participants \par
     and Records Management\b0  \par

\pard\li360 Records (including consents) must be maintained for as long as applicable regulations require.\par

\pard\f1\fs22\par

\pard{\pntext\f5\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf5\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\li720\f0\fs24 Explain how data will be recorded (describe any coding procedure).  Will anyone besides the principal investigator and co-investigators have access to the raw data or any other form of data (please describe)? How will data be reported if presented or published (particularly important \f2\endash\f0  will identifying information be masked)? \par

\pard\f1\fs22\par
\par

\pard{\pntext\f5\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf5\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\li720\f0\fs24 Explain any limits to confidentiality (e.g. child abuse reporting laws, individuals besides the researchers who will have access to data).\par

\pard\f1\fs22\par
\par

\pard{\pntext\f5\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf5\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\li720\f0\fs24 If Internet or Web-based surveys are being used, describe procedures for ensuring that confidentiality is protected.\par

\pard\f1\fs22\par
\par

\pard{\pntext\f5\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf5\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\li720\f0\fs24 How will records be stored during the study?  What will happen to records at the conclusion of the study?  (Please refer to the IRB website for policy and procedure on record retention.)  What will happen to data at the conclusion of the study?\par

\pard\f1\fs22\par
\par

\pard{\pntext\f5\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf5\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\li720\f0\fs24 If audiotaping or videotaping is conducted, describe how tapes will be stored and what will happen to them at the conclusion of the study?\par

\pard\f1\fs22\par
\par

\pard{\pntext\f5\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf5\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\li720\f0\fs24 Describe how records (e.g. consents, survey, tapes, notes) will be destroyed.  If records will not be destroyed, please explain why not.  Until records are destroyed, they must be kept in a secure place, accessed only by the investigator, co-investigators or sponsor/advisor. \par

\pard\f1\fs22\par
\par

\pard{\pntext\f5\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf5\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\li720\f0\fs24 Expected length of time for study to be completed (data collection and analysis)?\par

\pard\f1\fs22\par
\par
\b\f0\fs24 H. Informed consent\b0  - \b Attach consent and assent forms and/or script for oral explanation   \par
     (if any).\b0   \par

\pard\li360 More information about what is required and templates of informed consent / assent are provided on the IRB website.  All forms should be readable and must be presented in age and developmentally appropriate language.  \par

\pard\f1\fs22\par

\pard{\pntext\f5\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf5\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\li720\f0\fs24 Describe the process involved in obtaining informed consent (e.g. when, where, who, and how)\par

\pard\f1\fs22\par
\par
\par

\pard{\pntext\f5\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf5\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\li720\f0\fs24 If subjects include members of vulnerable populations or are vulnerable because of their relationship with the researcher, explain what special procedures will be followed to ensure informed and voluntary consent.  \par

\pard\f1\fs22\par
\par
\par

\pard{\pntext\f5\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf5\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\li720\f0\fs24 If potential participants are minors, describe procedures for obtaining their assent to research and procedures for obtaining parental or guardian consent.  \par

\pard\f1\fs22\par
\par
\par

\pard{\pntext\f5\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf5\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\li720\f0\fs24 If you believe your project requires a waiver or alteration of informed consent, or a waiver of the requirement to obtain a signed consent, you must request a waiver.  Complete the appropriate form provided on the IRB website and attach it to the end of this application.\par

\pard\f1\fs22\par
\par
\trowd\trgaph108\trleft-65\trrh315\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3
\clcfpat2\clcbpat3\clbrdrl\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf2\clbrdrt\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf2\clbrdrr\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf2\clbrdrb\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf2 \cellx9576 
\pard\intbl\li60\b\caps\f0\fs24 TyPES OF REVIEW\b0\caps0  \f1\fs22\cell\row 
\pard\par
\f0\fs24 Please indicate which category you are applying for review.  Please note that the IRB Committee will make the final determination for type of review.  If applying for an exempt or expedited review, you must indicate the category number.  The category numbers are located on the IRB website located at {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK http://www2.kutztown.edu/about-ku/administrative-offices/grants-and-sponsored-projects/institutional-review-board.htm }}{\fldrslt{http://www2.kutztown.edu/about-ku/administrative-offices/grants-and-sponsored-projects/institutional-review-board.htm\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs24 , under Types of Review.\par
\f1\fs22\par
\f0\fs24 ___Exempt Review \tab (Indicate category number 1a \f2\endash\f0  1f) __________\par
___Expedited Review\tab (Indicate category number 2a \f2\endash\f0  2g) __________\par
___Full Review\par
\f1\fs22\par
\par
\par
\trowd\trgaph108\trleft-65\trrh315\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddfr3
\clcfpat2\clcbpat3\clbrdrl\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf2\clbrdrt\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf2\clbrdrr\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf2\clbrdrb\brdrw10\brdrs\brdrcf2 \cellx9576 
\pard\intbl\li60\b\caps\f0\fs24 SIGNATURES\b0 - \caps0 All student applications and applications submitted by non-university personnel must have a Kutztown University advisor or sponsor.  \f1\fs22\cell\row 
\pard\par
\b\f0\fs24 The principal investigator, co-investigators and the advisor/sponsor must sign the application.  By signing and submitting the application to the IRB, all parties listed agree that they have read and agree to the following statements.  \par
\b0\f1\fs22\par
\f0\fs24 I understand that I have responsibility for the protection of the rights and welfare of human subjects and the ethical conduct of this research project.  \par
\f1\fs22\par
\f0\fs24 I agree to comply with all Kutztown University policies and procedures, applicable federal, state and local laws, and the ethical principles of my profession.\par
\f1\fs22\par
\f0\fs24 I have completed the required IRB training within the last three years.\par
\f1\fs22\par
\f0\fs24 I understand that if any revisions/changes are made in the project I must obtain IRB review and approval prior to implementation of changes.\par
\f1\fs22\par
\f0\fs24 I understand that IRB approval is only for one year (except exempt applications).  If my research will continue beyond one year, I will file the yearly review form with the IRB prior to the expiration date.  I understand that failure to file may result in termination of the project and require resubmission as a new project.\par
\f1\fs22\par
\f0\fs24 I will immediately report any adverse events or unanticipated problems to the IRB.\par
\f1\fs22\par
\f0\fs24 I understand that no part of the proposed research described in this application may be carried out until I have received final approval from the IRB.\par
\f1\fs22\par
\f0\fs24 Additional statement for advisors/sponsors - I understand that I am the primary responsible party for legal and ethical performance of this project.  I certify that I have read and approved this protocol and I agree to meet with the principal investigator(s) on a regular basis to review project progress and help resolve any problems which arise.  I also certify that I will provide written approval of all revisions and additions to this protocol.\par
    \par
\f1\fs22\par
\f0\fs24 Principal investigator:\par
\f1\fs22\par
\ul\f0\fs24\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\par
\ulnone Name (please print)\par
\f1\fs22\par
\par
\ul\f0\fs24\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\ulnone\tab\ul\tab\tab\par
\ulnone Signature\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab Date\par
\f1\fs22\par
\par
\par
\par
\f0\fs24 Co-investigators (if applicable) \fs20 (copy and paste additional signatures lines as needed)\fs24 :\par
\f1\fs22\par
\par
\ul\f0\fs24\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\par
\ulnone Name (please print)\par
\f1\fs22\par
\par
\ul\f0\fs24\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\ulnone\tab\ul\tab\tab\par
\ulnone Signature\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab Date\par
\f1\fs22\par
\par
\par
\ul\f0\fs24\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\par
\ulnone Name (please print)\par
\f1\fs22\par
\par
\ul\f0\fs24\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\ulnone\tab\ul\tab\tab\par
\ulnone Signature\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab Date\par
\f1\fs22\par
\par
\par
\f0\fs24 Advisor / Sponsor (if applicable):\par
\f1\fs22\par
\par
\ul\f0\fs24\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\par
\ulnone Name (please print)\par
\f1\fs22\par
\par
\ul\f0\fs24\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\ulnone\tab\ul\tab\tab\par
\ulnone Signature\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab\tab Date\par
\f1\fs22\par
}
 